# 12: Code Validation

## Description
A process in which code validation software is utilized to check the model parameters against project specific codes. Code validation is currently in its infant stage of development within the U.S. and is not in widespread use. However, as model checking tools continue to develop, code compliance software with more codes, code validation should become more prevalent within the design industry.

## Potential Value
-	Validate that building design is in compliance with specific codes, e.g. IBC International Building Code, ADA Americans with Disabilities Act guidelines and other project related codes using the 3D BIM model.
-	Code validation done early in design reduces the chance of code design errors, omissions or oversights that would be time consuming and more expensive to correct later in design or construction.
-	Code validation done automatically while design progresses gives continuous feedback on code compliance .Â 
-	Reduced turnaround time for 3D BIM model review by local code officials or reduced time that needs to be spent meeting with code commissioners, visiting the site, etc. or fixing code violations during punch list or closeout phase.
-	Saves time on multiple checking for code compliance and allows for a more efficient design process since mistakes cost time and money.

## Resources Required
-	Local codes
-	Model checking software
-	3D Model manipulation
 
## Team Competencies Required
-	Ability to use BIM authoring tool for design and model checking tool for design review
-	Ability to use code validation software and previous knowledge and experience with checking codes is needed.
 
## References for Additional Information
Automated Circulation Validation using BIM.  GSA.  1-22.
Eastman, C., Liston, K., Sacks, R. and Teicholz, P. BIM Handbook: A Guide to Building Information Modeling for Owners, Managers, Designers, Engineers and Contractors.”  New York, NY, Wiley, 2008.
 
 
## Potential Output Information
-	Report of Code Violations
 
Source:  BIM Project Execution Planning Guide, Ver. 2.2 with minor revisions.
