# 22: Space Management

## Description
A process in which BIM is utilized to effectively distribute, manage, and track appropriate spaces and related resources within a facility. A facility building information model allows the facility management team to analyze the existing use of the space and effectively apply transition planning management towards any applicable changes. Such applications are particularly useful during a project's renovation where building segments are to remain occupied. Space Management and Tracking ensures the appropriate allocation of spatial resources throughout the life of the facility. This use benefits from the utilization of the record model. This application often requires integration with spatial tracking software.

Spatial Coordination is the whole process of design error avoidance using federated Information Models and a collaborative shared design environment. The goal of the coordination process is to eliminate design errors before construction of the project. The BIM coordination process shall also include but not be limited to the checks for spatial and headroom requirements, working spaces for building operations and maintenance activities, installation and replacement of equipment and machines. Modelling teams are required to deliver coordinated information and must undertake their own check, review, and approve process prior to the sharing of information. ​

The procedure for undertaking the model check includes:​
* To compare Information Models built up from designs of different disciplines; ​
* To ensure models are coordinated with the current shared information; ​
* To ensure models include all reference file names, revision, version, status code and authorisation codes; ​
* To identify spatial clashes, mark-ups, comments and priority for actions; ​
* To report spatial coordination conflicts to the responsible parties and if necessary, the Appointing Party / Client or its representatives for decision making; ​
* To ensure information is spatially coordinated and revise design information upon instruction; ​
* To rebuild / update Information Models; ​
* To identify coordinated models for sharing as suitable for coordination, submission and approval; and ​
* To document changes, revision history and approved copies..


## Potential Value 
-	More easily identify and allocate space for appropriate building use
-	Increase the efficiency of transition planning and management
-	Proficiently track the use of current space and resources
-	Assist in planning future space needs for the facility
 
## Resources Required
-	Bi-directional 3D Model Manipulation; software and record model integration
-	Space mapping and management input application 
 
## Team Competencies Required
-	Ability to manipulate, navigate, and review record model
-	Ability to assess current space and assets and mange appropriately for future needs
-	Knowledge of facility management applications
-	Ability to effectively integrate the record model with the Facility Management's Application and appropriate software associated with the client's needs.
 
## References for Additional Information
Jason Thacker "Total Facilities Management." 2010. 19 Sept. 2010. Technology Associates International Corporation. Web. 19 Sept. 2010, <http://proceedings.esri.com/library/userconf/proc04/docs/pap1519.pdf>.
Mapping Your Facilities Management Future. Aug. 2009 Web. 19 Sept. 2010. Acatech Solutions, <https://www.avatech.com/solutions/facilities-management/facilities-management-whitepapers.aspx>.
Vacik, Nocolas A. and Patricia Huesca-Dorantes. "building a GIS Database for Space and Facilities Management." New Directions for Institutional Research, n120 p53-61 2003.

## Potential Output Information
-	Space management reports
-	Space management data
 
Source:  BIM Project Execution Planning Guide, Ver. 2.2 with minor revisions.

