## W2: IFC

*9th September 2024*

With Kristoffer Negendahl.

## Presentation
* ___ IFC [Properties and PropertySets]
* ___ [Python](/Concepts/Python)

### Activity

### 1) Make a group with the same focus area
* 2 people - exceptionally could be 3
* Make sure you are interested in the same [focus] area.
* This is your 2 - 3 people group if you main group for this course.
* Additionally you are part of a larger focus group that includes all the group interested in that focus area - please enroll on [DTU Learn](https://learn.inside.dtu.dk/d2l/lms/group/group_list.d2l?ou=215344&categoryId=21022) (enrolled students only)

### 2) Select a manager group
* Each focus area needs a manager group,
* Managers should be a group that are great communicators, that care about coordinating information and want to help other groups.
* Managers also have the responsibility to report challenges and feedback to the course teachers.
* Those groups that want to be managers, should pitch to the other groups in the focus area. Then the groups vote.
* Only one manager group per focus area, unless agreed by course responsible.

### 3) Review Project documentation for that focus area.
* ___ Download the [Advanced Building Design Models](add link) *[enrolled students only]*.
* It is important to look at all 4 projects. Both for the subject report you have selected and client report.
* Have a look at the BEATS and see how these are used in the project.
* For each subject we require one manager group. The job of this group will be to coordinate the different groups in the subject area.
* The manager will support the [analysts] by coordinating their work.

### 4) Select a claim to check.
* it could be one of the BEATS.
* It could be a number from the poster for the year.
* It does not need to be a super complicated number.
* Inside your focus area, find a claim that the team has made from one of the projects we have given you.
* find a use case or a "problem" you'd want to solve. If your focus area was "indoor climate", an example of a use case could be "calculate Daylight Autonomy for every space".

[IfcProperties and IfcPropertySets]: /Concepts/Properties
[PropertySets]: /Concepts/Property
[focus]: /Focus
[A1]: /Assignments/A1
