# Generate
Objective: to create or author information about the facility. Synonyms: create, author, model. 
Description: Within the lifecycle of a facility almost every discipline that interacts with the facility will generate information about the facility. This purpose of BIM Uses includes those where BIM is used to create or author information about the facility. It includes prescribing, arranging, and sizing facility elements to various levels of development. Within the design phase, the design team will be the primary generators of information, while in the construction phase, the subcontractors will generate most of the information. Additionally, in the operations phase, that information could be generated by those maintaining the facility when they update or change that facility. Anytime new information is authored, modelled, or created, it is generated.

## Prescribe
Objective: to determine the need for and select specific facility elements. 
Synonyms: program, specify, select.
Description: The prescribing purpose of BIM Uses is used when a generator determines there is a need for a specific facility element. The programmer or architect of the facility may prescribe the need for certain rooms or spaces in the facility. While the mechanical engineer may prescribe the need for a specific HVAC system. The contractor could determine the need for a temporary construction element such as a tower crane, and the operator of the facility may prescribe a specific replacement part for the facility. The element prescribed depends on a number of factors such as phase, discipline, and level of development. 

## Arrange
Objective: to determine location and placement of facility elements. 
Synonyms: configure, lay out, locate, place.
Description: The arranging purpose of BIM Uses includes those Uses in which a location or configuration of a facility element is determined. During the planning phase of a facility's life, this could be the arrangement or adjacency of specific spaces within a proposed facility. During the design phase, it could be the general location of fire protection piping. While in the construction phase, it could include the placement of the hangers that support that piping. This could also be used during the operations phase to determine the placement of furniture systems. In general terms, any time a geometric location of element is determine, it is being arranged. 

## Size
Objective: to determine the magnitude and scale of facility elements. 
Synonyms: scale, engineer.
Description: The sizing purpose of BIM Uses is in use when the magnitude of a facility element is determined. Some of those elements during design could include the dimensions of spaces, the shape of a steel beam, or the size of ductwork. During construction, it could include the size of a crane or the thickness of duct insulation. Additionally, during operations, facility managers record the size of replacement parts or modifications to the facility. 


