# A1: Forensic BIM

| | Forensic BIM Assignment  |
| --- | ----- |
| **Aim**|  Identify and fact check project simple claims in [Advanced Building Design]  |
| **Complexity**| Low - Medium: You just need to prove that it is possible :)  |
| **Tools** |  [Blender] / [Bonsai] / [Python] / [IfcOpenShell]  |
| **Models** |  Advanced Building Design |
| **Case Analysts** | Script to check a simple claim from your  [focus] area |
| **Case Manager** | Coordinate the claims for your [focus] area |
| **Groups** |  2 - 3 people group for a specific [focus] area|
| **Practice** | In class activity in week [1], [2] and [3] |
| **Exercises** | Learn Blender / Bonsai, IfcOpenShell and Github |

**The aim of this assignment is to become familiar with the core concepts of **[OpenBIM]**. This is done through a deep dive into the [IFC] data model and associated Open BIM standards. The [IFC data model](/Concepts/IFC) is the industry standard for BIM, but many BIM practioners (and some BIM experts) still don't really understand it. This approach gives you the best possible foundation for journey to becoming an [OpenBIM guru]

### Introduction
In the Advanced Building Design Course students submit Disciplinary specific BIM models in IFC along with Disciplinary 'subject reports' and a 'client report' which summarises the interdisciplinary design of a tall building.

## Scenario
>You have been asked by the building client to check a specific claim made by the team.

The client has heard that you have a novel OpenBIM process for checking claims made in the report. This is known in the industry as a rule checker. The client wants you to demonstrate the power of this approach by checking a specific claim. This will require a synthesis of your BIM and discipline specific engineering knowledge, so you should pick a focus area that you are familiar with.

## Task
Your job in this assignment is to check a claim made made in either a team's subject or client report. Can what they are saying be validated by the BIM?

Enrolled students please find the reports on the DTU Learn page 

**Content > Project Reports > Adv Building Design 24 Reports > CES_BLD_24_06_Reports**

In that folder you will find both the subject reports and the client report.

> Remember that the client at this stage just wants to see that this is possible, they are not here looking for complexity in the code or anything else, just that you can do it. Your check could be very simple for instance, how many floors does the model have? does it have spaces?

Apply simple scripts to validate claims made in previous iteraitons of the [Advanced Building Design] course. In your [focus] groups you will check specfic claims made in their project reports. aS example these could (depending on your focus area) include: 
* Project GFA,
* Spaces required in the [project brief](/41936/Project/Breif)
* Energy Frame
* Facade transparency ...
* What other things can you think of?

You can analyse the models using scripts as in the previous years using Blender / Bonsai as an IDE (integrated development environment) incorporating a console, 3d view, IFC data model hierarchy, and IFC property views in one place.

Then try and put this script into the analyzer examples provided in Week 2.

The final submission is:

Edit the README.md file so it includes:

1. Your group number (but not your student number etc.)
2. Your focus area.
3. The claim you are checking
4. The report and page number or section that you found the claim in.
5. Description of your script
    * For analysts: A brief description of what your script is doing
    * For Managers: A summary of the scripts you are running with links to their repos.

## Steps

### Week 1
To acheive this, you will first review the disciplinary IFC models in Blender with the Bonsai (fka BlenderBIM) plugin.
* Install Blender / Bonsai
* Load the model and look around

### Week 2
It is possible to get information and model properties in Blender, but this would be very slow, so we will then show you how to run a simple script in the Blender Python script window to automate this search.
* Make a group with the same focus area
* Select a manager group
* Review Project documentation for that focus area.
* Select a claim to check.
* Start working with IfcOpenShell
* get a github account

**manager**

* if a manager come the manager repo.

**analyst**
* if an analyst clone the analyst repo.

### Week 3
* Finalise the assignment.

This assignment supports the following [learning objectives].

### Learning Objectives
* 02 Identify, locate and extract information from an [IFC] model in [OpenBIM] tools
* 03 Apply appropriate [OpenBIM standards] and guidelines to support open and [FAIR] data, tools and processes.
* 04 Provide professional [disciplinary] guidance based on [OpenBIM] [analysis].
* 06 Create, fork, branch and collaborate on the development of an [OpenBIM] tool in [Python] with peers in a [code repository].
* 07 Identify [BIM] challenges by analysing [OpenBIM] data.
* 11 Apply and improve programming skills in [Python] to develop an OpenBIM tool or [modelling] skills in OpenBIM using your engineering domain expertise.

## Submission 2024
Enrolled students submit on DTU Learn [here](https://learn.inside.dtu.dk/d2l/lms/dropbox/user/folders_list.d2l?ou=215344&isprv=0)

<!-- links --> 

[1]: /Schedule/01
[2]: /Schedule/02
[3]: /Schedule/03

[Advanced Building Design]: /41946/

[OpenBIM Guru]: /Roles/Guru

[BIM]: /Concepts/BIM
[Blender]: /Concepts/Blender
[Bonsai]: /Concepts/Bonsai/index

[FAIR]: /Concepts/FAIR
[IFC]: /Concepts/IFC

[focus]: /Focus/index
[learning objectives]: /LearningObjectives

[OpenBIM]: /Concepts/OpenBIM
[OpenBIM standards]: /Concepts/Standards


<!--
### 3) Choose the relevant model from the Stanford / Skylab models
* Download the [Stanford models](https://learn.inside.dtu.dk/d2l/le/content/167582/Home) or Skylab models (on Learn -> "IFC Models" -> "Stanford models" - *Enrolled Students Only*
* Select the model that best represents your focus area.

### 4) Convert the IFC to an Excel work book using the IFA tool
[IFA Tool](/Concepts/IFCFileAnalyzer)

* Install IFA
* generate the spreadsheet

What you choose to represent in your dashboard is up to you, but it should match the focus area and use case you have chosen. Think about what information would be necessary to solve your use case.

You could consider trying to represent:

* areas of the building,

* quantities of materials,

* could you estimate cost? - if so how?

* what else can you find in the IFC data that you could use in your dashboard?

### 6.a) Add a sentence about your use case at the top of your dashboard. Concider how the information you're showing supports your use case.

### 7) Submission

Your group must submit your modified excel including the dashboard sheet as the first sheet in the workbook.

You are not submitting any reports with this, so make sure that your dashboard is easy to understand - how do we know what we are looking at, and what you tried to do?

-->
