Assignments/A3.md, before:

# A3: Tool

|  | Tool Assignment  |
| --- | ----- |
| **Aim**|  Create a custom tool for the use case you defined in [A2].  |
| **Tools:** | [Blender] / [Bonsai] / [Python] / [IfcOpenShell] / [Speckle]  |
| **Case:** |  Automate the validation of claims made in Advanced Building Design Reports  |
| **Groups:** | 2 - 3 people group for a specific [focus] area |
| **Practice:** | In class activity in weeks [5], [6], [7], [8] |
| **Exercise:** | Following the in class activities will provide the submission requirements |


>**Develop Management Experience**: Assignment [A3] and [A4] have the same deadline, this is to give you the maximum time to develop your tool and project manage your group's time.

## Submission Requirements

## Develop your own script

Check out the [future aec software specification](https://future-aec-software-specification.com/data-framework/) for inspiration.

Now you can begin to develop an [IfcOpenShell] script that follows your script diagram from A2E.

The IFC model itself is **not** a part of the assignment, and should not be part of your git-repository.

In your `main.py`, define a variable pointing to the model on your local machine:

```Python
...
from pathlib import Path

model_path = Path("C:/Users/JohnDenver/documents/models/CES_BLD_24_xx_yyy.ifc")
if not model_path.is_file():
    raise FileNotFoundError(f"No file found at {model_path}!")

model = ifcopenshell.open(model_path)
...
```


## Activity Completion'

### 00 Preparation
* Decide in your subject group if you will be following the 'manager / analyst' format or if you are developing independent tools.
* Make a new folder in your github repository called A3. This folder will contain the readme for the assignment.


### 01 Your tool - A Python script
* Your `main.py` file. You can have multiple Python files, but then they should be imported as modules into the `main.py` script.

### 02 The IFC model
* Please do not upload the IFC model.

### 03 A markdown file: 
This is based on the Use Case Analysis you did in [A2].
it should answer the following questions:
* State the problem / claim that your tool is solving.
* State where you found that problem.
* Description of the tool
* instructions to run the tool.
* 
<!--
* Describe the use case you have chosen.
* Who is the use case for?	
* What disciplinary (non BIM) expertise do you use to solve the use case?
* What IFC concepts do you need to use in your script (or would you use in the rest of the tool)?
* What disciplinary analysis does it require?	
* What building elements are you interested in?
* What is the _input data_ for your use case?	
* What (use cases) need to be done _before_ you can start your use case?
* What other use cases are waiting for your use case to complete?
-->




<!--

   
This task focuses on ISO 19650. The intention for autumn 2022 was to integrate real examples of 19650 into the course with practical examples, for instance by prototyping a total process using Speckle that complied to ISO 19650. However, time constraints in planning the course meant that this was ultimately replaced with traditional lectures from external parties (Molio). These provided informative content to the students but on their own were not enough for them to see the alignment to the other activities. A future BIM course should be focused on thinking in and gaining experience using ISO 19650 rather than just ‘teaching’ it. The experience of the autumn 2022 course enabled a proposal to map the development methodology (Figure 3) to ISO 19650 (Figure 4).

The structure of this depends on the tool you have chosen to develop but it should:
1. be written in Python (mostly) so should contain a main.py file
2. if you have used blender as the target for the tool, please also include a .blend file that we can load to check your project.
3. have clearly seperated the code from the input data and resulting guidance (output) (if your output is a file).

The structure of this depends on the tool you have chosen but a base structure for your folder / github repository should be: 

````
  - FILE: readme.md // the most important file :) 
  + FOLDER *img* // folder to 
  + FOLDER *model*
    - FILE: duplex or something else (ifc)
  + FOLDER *input* (examples given below)
    - FILE: excel data for instance // could also be assumption data
    - FILE: material cost data in json format?
  + FOLDER: *output*
    - FILE: this is if the output for your tool is a file, for instance an excel file.
  - FILE: main.py // you may also have other python files in there, but make sure you start from main.py
  - other python files folders and code as required.
  
````


## A3B: Ontology
### Learning Objectives
5. Apply domain specific linked data ontologies.
11. Apply and improve programming skills in Python to develop an OpenBIM tool or modelling skills in OpenBIM using your engineering domain expertise.
   
The focus of this assignment is to support the Ontologist role. This should cover both Open Linked building data and traditional classification systems.

### Overview
We want you to think of BIM as a method for you to get information and perform analysis on models for things that interest you. Therefore, in this assignment we want you to work on a use case that you are really passionate about and want to explore further which you can develop further in your final project. For this activity you need to further develop and analyse your BIM Use Case. Advanced BIM isn’t about changing everything at once. It is about focusing on a specific use case, and starting to think about how you would test a potential solution to that use case before you build the solutions. It is about considering, the information that you need - what can you get from the IFC for instance? In this activity you will
* Identify the IFC entities and properties you will need for your use case.
* describe the existing process in a BPMN (this time you can be more specific).
You should use this activity to clearly scope your ambition and motivation for your OpenBIM workflow / tool. The idea is to reduce the potential to overstretch and provide an opportunity to demonstrate the potential (business) value that your tool could offer.

### Content
In this assignment you will dig deeper into use cases and some tools and standards to support this and develop two BIM use case that extends provide a real example of a BIM use that you can then use to develop your final project (you will choose one of these BIM uses for the final project).

### Assignment Format
Therefore, the core of the assignment is to produce a readme.md in markdown for your selected use case. 
Assignment should include
Report (documenting sections mentioned in this assignment) and call it: Readme.md

IDM diagrams:
1.	BPMN file of current use case (as implemented by you) + 
2.	BPMN file of the use case with additional/modified improved functions (which you would like to see implemented) 
If you download this from bpmn.io as an svg you should be able to place this in an img folder in your github repo and then show it in the readme file.
It may be beneficial to divide up or make multiple focused diagrams (BPMN files) showing an *Overview, Portions* or *Details* of the execution plan.

```
![Alt text](name of SVG file)
<img src=" img/name_of_svg_file.svg ">
```

## The report
You should produce a report written in markdown. The contents of the report are based on a hybrid of full Information delivery manuals, the BIM Execution Plan from Penn State and common development methodologies from computer science. in this sense, the use case report you will produce for this assignment is special as it includes the plan for the development of a new tool / workflow. It should include the following parts

### 3A: Analyse use case

1. Goal: Goal of the tool / workflow in one sentence. i.e. to support the user to calculate the total total cost of the project.
2. Model Use (Bim Uses): Please refer initially to the Mapping BIM uses, use cases and processes section in this document.

### 3B: Propose a (design for a) tool / workflow

3. Process: model the process diagram from your use case in BPMN.io please remember to save the .bpmn file and you can save a .svg file that you can insert into your report. 
4. description of the process of your tool / workflow.

### 3C [removed for this assignment]

### 3D: Value What is the potential improvement offered by this tool?

This is the common question when developing tools and processes as an [intrapreneur]( https://hbr.org/2020/03/why-you-should-become-an-intrapreneur) in a company. You should consider the business and societal value of this tool – does it save time to the company, does it make employees happier / more productive? Could it reduce material use in society?

7. Describe the business value (How does it create value for your business/employer)
8. Describe the societal value (How does it make the world better)

* N.B. If it doesn't do either of these things (ideally it should do both - don't do it!!)

### 3E: Delivery

Requirements:
+ [x] **Markdown-formated report: Describing your tool/workflow: upload link to your Github report on Learn**
+ [X] **If you use the Skylab model please do NOT upload it at github**
+ [X] **If you use another .ifc model please upload in the folder structure at github as described in the beginning of the assignment**
      
The report should link to or include:
- [x] Two IDM-diagrams
- [x] IFC model for the use case before the remodelling
- [x] IFC model for the use case after the remodelling
- [x] Description of and the script(s) used for the use case 
-->
[BIM execution plan]: /Concepts/BIMExecutionPlan
[BlenderBIM]: /Concepts/BlenderBIM
[A2]: /Assignments/A2

Commit message:

Added instructions for A3-folder contents

Assignments/A3.md, after:

# A3: Tool

|  | Tool Assignment  |
| --- | ----- |
| **Aim**|  Create a custom tool for the use case you defined in [A2].  |
| **Tools:** | [Blender] / [Bonsai] / [Python] / [IfcOpenShell] / [Speckle]  |
| **Case:** |  Automate the validation of claims made in Advanced Building Design Reports  |
| **Groups:** | 2 - 3 people group for a specific [focus] area |
| **Practice:** | In class activity in weeks [5], [6], [7], [8] |
| **Exercise:** | Following the in class activities will provide the submission requirements |


>**Develop Management Experience**: Assignment [A3] and [A4] have the same deadline, this is to give you the maximum time to develop your tool and project manage your group's time.

## Submission Requirements

## Develop your own script

Check out the [future aec software specification](https://future-aec-software-specification.com/data-framework/) for inspiration.

Now you can begin to develop an [IfcOpenShell] script that follows your script diagram from A2E.

The IFC model itself is **not** a part of the assignment, and should not be part of your git-repository.

In your `main.py`, define a variable pointing to the model on your local machine:

```Python
...
from pathlib import Path

model_path = Path("C:/Users/JohnDenver/documents/models/CES_BLD_24_xx_yyy.ifc")
if not model_path.is_file():
    raise FileNotFoundError(f"No file found at {model_path}!")

model = ifcopenshell.open(model_path)
...
```


## Activity Completion

### 00 Preparation
* Decide in your subject group if you will be following the 'manager / analyst' format or if you are developing independent tools.
* Make a new folder in your github repository called A3. Every file contained within A3 is considered a part of the assignment.
    * **Note**: If you are not developing an independt tool, but are still working with your manager, you are allowed to have files _outside_ of the `A3/`-folder, in the `rules/`-folder.
In this case, you should explicitly state in your A3-report which functions are part of A3.


The contents of `A3/` could be something like the following:
```
A3
│   README.md
│   main.py
|   someUtils.py
|   someDiagramName.svg (if you have made any alterations since A2)
│   ...
```

### 01 Your tool - A Python script
* Your `main.py` file. You can have multiple Python files, but then they should be imported as modules into the `main.py` script.

### 02 The IFC model
* Please do not upload the IFC model.

### 03 A markdown file: 
This is based on the Use Case Analysis you did in [A2].
it should answer the following questions:
* State the problem / claim that your tool is solving.
* State where you found that problem.
* Description of the tool
* instructions to run the tool.
* 
<!--
* Describe the use case you have chosen.
* Who is the use case for?	
* What disciplinary (non BIM) expertise do you use to solve the use case?
* What IFC concepts do you need to use in your script (or would you use in the rest of the tool)?
* What disciplinary analysis does it require?	
* What building elements are you interested in?
* What is the _input data_ for your use case?	
* What (use cases) need to be done _before_ you can start your use case?
* What other use cases are waiting for your use case to complete?
-->




<!--

   
This task focuses on ISO 19650. The intention for autumn 2022 was to integrate real examples of 19650 into the course with practical examples, for instance by prototyping a total process using Speckle that complied to ISO 19650. However, time constraints in planning the course meant that this was ultimately replaced with traditional lectures from external parties (Molio). These provided informative content to the students but on their own were not enough for them to see the alignment to the other activities. A future BIM course should be focused on thinking in and gaining experience using ISO 19650 rather than just ‘teaching’ it. The experience of the autumn 2022 course enabled a proposal to map the development methodology (Figure 3) to ISO 19650 (Figure 4).

The structure of this depends on the tool you have chosen to develop but it should:
1. be written in Python (mostly) so should contain a main.py file
2. if you have used blender as the target for the tool, please also include a .blend file that we can load to check your project.
3. have clearly seperated the code from the input data and resulting guidance (output) (if your output is a file).

The structure of this depends on the tool you have chosen but a base structure for your folder / github repository should be: 

````
  - FILE: readme.md // the most important file :) 
  + FOLDER *img* // folder to 
  + FOLDER *model*
    - FILE: duplex or something else (ifc)
  + FOLDER *input* (examples given below)
    - FILE: excel data for instance // could also be assumption data
    - FILE: material cost data in json format?
  + FOLDER: *output*
    - FILE: this is if the output for your tool is a file, for instance an excel file.
  - FILE: main.py // you may also have other python files in there, but make sure you start from main.py
  - other python files folders and code as required.
  
````


## A3B: Ontology
### Learning Objectives
5. Apply domain specific linked data ontologies.
11. Apply and improve programming skills in Python to develop an OpenBIM tool or modelling skills in OpenBIM using your engineering domain expertise.
   
The focus of this assignment is to support the Ontologist role. This should cover both Open Linked building data and traditional classification systems.

### Overview
We want you to think of BIM as a method for you to get information and perform analysis on models for things that interest you. Therefore, in this assignment we want you to work on a use case that you are really passionate about and want to explore further which you can develop further in your final project. For this activity you need to further develop and analyse your BIM Use Case. Advanced BIM isn’t about changing everything at once. It is about focusing on a specific use case, and starting to think about how you would test a potential solution to that use case before you build the solutions. It is about considering, the information that you need - what can you get from the IFC for instance? In this activity you will
* Identify the IFC entities and properties you will need for your use case.
* describe the existing process in a BPMN (this time you can be more specific).
You should use this activity to clearly scope your ambition and motivation for your OpenBIM workflow / tool. The idea is to reduce the potential to overstretch and provide an opportunity to demonstrate the potential (business) value that your tool could offer.

### Content
In this assignment you will dig deeper into use cases and some tools and standards to support this and develop two BIM use case that extends provide a real example of a BIM use that you can then use to develop your final project (you will choose one of these BIM uses for the final project).

### Assignment Format
Therefore, the core of the assignment is to produce a readme.md in markdown for your selected use case. 
Assignment should include
Report (documenting sections mentioned in this assignment) and call it: Readme.md

IDM diagrams:
1.	BPMN file of current use case (as implemented by you) + 
2.	BPMN file of the use case with additional/modified improved functions (which you would like to see implemented) 
If you download this from bpmn.io as an svg you should be able to place this in an img folder in your github repo and then show it in the readme file.
It may be beneficial to divide up or make multiple focused diagrams (BPMN files) showing an *Overview, Portions* or *Details* of the execution plan.

```
![Alt text](name of SVG file)
<img src=" img/name_of_svg_file.svg ">
```

## The report
You should produce a report written in markdown. The contents of the report are based on a hybrid of full Information delivery manuals, the BIM Execution Plan from Penn State and common development methodologies from computer science. in this sense, the use case report you will produce for this assignment is special as it includes the plan for the development of a new tool / workflow. It should include the following parts

### 3A: Analyse use case

1. Goal: Goal of the tool / workflow in one sentence. i.e. to support the user to calculate the total total cost of the project.
2. Model Use (Bim Uses): Please refer initially to the Mapping BIM uses, use cases and processes section in this document.

### 3B: Propose a (design for a) tool / workflow

3. Process: model the process diagram from your use case in BPMN.io please remember to save the .bpmn file and you can save a .svg file that you can insert into your report. 
4. description of the process of your tool / workflow.

### 3C [removed for this assignment]

### 3D: Value What is the potential improvement offered by this tool?

This is the common question when developing tools and processes as an [intrapreneur]( https://hbr.org/2020/03/why-you-should-become-an-intrapreneur) in a company. You should consider the business and societal value of this tool – does it save time to the company, does it make employees happier / more productive? Could it reduce material use in society?

7. Describe the business value (How does it create value for your business/employer)
8. Describe the societal value (How does it make the world better)

* N.B. If it doesn't do either of these things (ideally it should do both - don't do it!!)

### 3E: Delivery

Requirements:
+ [x] **Markdown-formated report: Describing your tool/workflow: upload link to your Github report on Learn**
+ [X] **If you use the Skylab model please do NOT upload it at github**
+ [X] **If you use another .ifc model please upload in the folder structure at github as described in the beginning of the assignment**
      
The report should link to or include:
- [x] Two IDM-diagrams
- [x] IFC model for the use case before the remodelling
- [x] IFC model for the use case after the remodelling
- [x] Description of and the script(s) used for the use case 
-->
[BIM execution plan]: /Concepts/BIMExecutionPlan
[BlenderBIM]: /Concepts/BlenderBIM
[A2]: /Assignments/A2
